Energy Efficient Data Encryption Techniques in Smartphones

Mobile devices have been increased exceptionally in recent years, consequently, data generation has also been raised exceptionally. Most of the data generated by mobile devices are transferred to servers for processing and storage. Managing security of mobile data is a necessary feature of every network and mostly encryption is used to avoid security breaches. The major challenge is that mobile devices are very small with the shortage of resources, on the other hand, encryption of data requires extra energy. It is necessary to minimize energy requirements for the encryption of data. For this experimental research, an android based application is developed, which optimizes energy requirements for both single and double encryption techniques. AES and Blowfish encryption algorithms are used with different file sizes to test the energy requirements for single encryption. For double encryption methods, AES–Blowfish, Blowfish–AES, and XTS–AES combinations of algorithms are used and energy usage is gathered. 

The power energy computed using PowerTutor. 


## Citation
If you find this code useful in your work, please cite the following publication:

Mujtaba, G., Tahir, M. & Soomro, M.H. Energy Efficient Data Encryption Techniques in Smartphones. Wireless Pers Commun 106, 2023–2035 (2019). 

https://doi.org/10.1007/s11277-018-5920-1


## License
Copyright (c) 2020, Ghulam Mujtaba. All rights reserved. This code is provided for academic, non-commercial use only. Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted for academic non-commercial use provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation provided with the distribution.

This software is provided by the authors "as is" and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall the authors be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.
